

                               J O E L   L I N G

         Polyglot  software  engineer  ;  cross-cultural  communicator
                Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator


* EXPERIENCE

  + Open-Xchange                                            Jan 2022 ~

    - Solution Engineer, Professional Services
    - Technical Project Manager

      As a member of multinational project teams delivering email and DNS at
      scale on public and private clouds, I facilitate the flow of information
      and resources at the crossroads where people, processes, and practices
      from all walks come into contact. Bridging gaps in cultures, timezones,
      and organisational boundaries, I connect people with different priorities
      and concerns, navigate multiple contexts in parallel, move decisions
      against shifting backdrops, and ensure promises are delivered.

      The most valuable strength I bring to the table in this position is an
      ability to quickly appreciate the gist of any conversation, regardless of
      the level of technical detail at which it is presented, in either English
      or Japanese. In my engagements I make sure that every point of view has
      been thoroughly understood and appropriately communicated to the relevant
      stakeholders, and see to it that a practicable consensus is built.


  + Infostellar                                             May 2021 ~ Dec 2021

    - Senior Software Engineer, Product Development

      At Infostellar I was in charge of the design and delivery of a driver
      deployed on the edge of the network, i.e. at Google Cloud's points of
      presence nearest to a number of sites operated by Viasat, to integrate
      their global network of ground antennas with Infostellar's platform
      brokering on-demand access to satellite communications. Today, the
      software continues to serve a constellation of space agencies and firms
      downloading streams of satellite telemetry over Infostellar's platform.

      To succeed in this project, I had to understand open and proprietary
      communication protocols and message formats down to the binary level,
      visualise data pipelines as a collection of concurrent event loops, and
      implement each of those independently-scalable components in Go. I also
      had to devise automated tests that ensure the modules would work together
      as intended, without access to data and interface endpoints in production.

      I went the extra mile in this project and authored a performant Go module
      that unlocks the syntactic power of Go struct tags, to provide a suitable
      layer of abstraction between low-level bit manipulation and domain-
      specific message format definitions. By limiting the degree of complexity
      one would need to manage when working with binary formats, development of
      the driver was significantly accelerated, and tight deadlines were met.

      The module is available on GitHub at https://github.com/encodingx/binary.


      Relevant Recommendations
      ------------------------
      Steve Montgomery, then Chief Technical Officer of Infostellar:
      "Joel was an integral member of our development team during his time at
      Infostellar. Joel has all the elements of being a great engineer, and I
      think he also exhibits leadership skills that will serve him well as he
      advances in his career. I'm very confident that Joel will be successful
      and will be an asset to any company that works with him, and I hope that
      I have opportunities in the future to work with Joel again."

      Valters Meirens, then Tech Lead at Infostellar:
      "Joel knows exactly when and how to introduce new information and
      insights. Many situations have nuances that can be overlooked when
      working in fast and dynamic environments, however Joel never misses them.
      Superb technical skills combined with a passion for learning better
      solutions at every opportunity."


  + Chowa Giken Corporation                                 Aug 2020 ~ May 2021

    - Software Engineer (Senior Associate)

      At Chowa Giken I worked alongside data scientists developing solutions
      for dynamic pricing and sentiment analysis powered by machine learning. I
      was relied on to translate the output of their research into commercial
      APIs licensed to business customers, and helped pioneer the research-
      centric company's venture into profitable product development.

      Analysing Jupyter notebooks in conversation with scientists charged with
      enhancing the accuracy of proprietary machine learning models, I was
      responsible for developing containerised microservices in Python and Go
      that addressed issues in performance, test coverage, code readability and
      reusability, input validation, and error handling. I also automated build
      processes and enabled short iterations characteristic of agile workflows.

      Here I was exposed to PyTorch and Tensorflow, as well as ideas in MLOps.


  + Hokkaido University                                     Jan 2021 ~ Mar 2021

    - Research Assistant,
      Graduate School of Information Science and Tecnology

      In this part-time assignment I was tasked to read papers on attention
      models emerging around the works of Vaswani et al (as applied by Camgoz
      et al), and explain why these models excel in sequence modelling tasks,
      outperforming traditional sequence-to-sequence models. Diving into the
      mechanisms by which attention models preserve contextual information, I
      outlined high-level concepts embodied in low-level vector operations.


  + Indetail                                                Nov 2019 ~ Jul 2020

    - Software Engineer

      In this junior role I accumulated hands-on hours and picked up many
      fundamentals and best practices relevant to the design, development, and
      deployment of full-stack web applications as lightweight cloud services.


  + The Quick Brown Fox                                     Jun 2019 ~ Oct 2019

    - Full-Stack Developer

      This one-man consultancy I ran between graduating university and starting
      my first job in Japan marked my first experience of all the stages in a
      software development life cycle. Awarded a project by a firm of
      management consultants, I proposed and successfully delivered a solution
      tailored to the customer's requirements, and billed them for my services.


  + Singapore Management University                         Aug 2017 ~ Nov 2018

    - Research and Teaching Assistant,
      School of Accountancy

      During my undergraduate studies at the university, I worked a part-time
      job providing consultation and technical assistance in Python, R, and SQL
      to faculty members and graduate students of accounting data analytics.


  + KPMG                                                    Dec 2017 ~ Feb 2018

    - Management Intern, Forensic Technology

      As an intern I was tasked with implementing machine learning algorithms
      from scientific papers to help fraud investigators isolate anomalous
      financial transactions. I also ported legacy software to newer platforms.


  + Deloitte                                                May 2017 ~ Jul 2017

    - Intern, Audit Analytics

      During this internship I performed data extraction, transformation, and
      loading (ETL), computer-aided audit techniques, exploratory data
      analysis, data visualisation, and development of in-house software tools.


  + Atlas Sound & Vision                                    Jan 2017 ~ Mar 2017

    - Student Consultant,
      SMU-X Accounting Analytics Practicum

      In this project I led a team of undergraduate students tasked with
      analysing accounting data of a retailer and help increase the accuracy of
      their financial forecasts. We ended up delivering a proof-of-concept web
      application that takes inputs from frontline employees, runs Monte Carlo
      simulations given parameters learned from historical data, and presents
      to management a dashboard showing forecasted monthly cash receipts.


  + Singapore Civil Defence Force                           Sep 2013 ~ Aug 2015

    - Fire and Rescue Specialist,
      Senior Command Training Branch

      While serving my country as a firefighter I was given an opportunity to
      prototype software in Python that helps officers on the site of large-
      scale firefighting and rescue operations to track the amount of air
      remaining in the breathing apparatus of men deployed and estimate in real
      time the safe working duration until a team must exit the incident site.


      Relevant Recommendation
      -----------------------
      Tiffany Neo, then Senior Trainer at the Senior Command Training Branch:
      "I had the pleasure of working with Joel when he was serving his National
      Service in the Singapore Civil Defence Force. He has an excellent work
      ethic, produces work on time and is meticulous. He is also proactive in
      suggesting improvements that can be made to processes and projects."


  + Agency for Science, Technology and Research             Apr 2011 ~ Nov 2011

    - Research Assistant, Data Storage Insitute

      While in junior college I travelled to the Data Storage Institute every
      week to carry out experiment procedures on microscopic spintronic devices
      and collect data for analysis under the supervision of a scientist.


* HOBBIES & INTERESTS

  + Learning the Rust programming language

    - https://github.com/joel-ling/rust-discard

      Recently I toyed with a crude implementation of a Discard server as
      described in RFC 863, to satisfy a personal curiosity for understanding
      how a server might handle multiple concurrent connections over the
      Transmission Control Protocol, using only the Rust Standard Library.


* EDUCATION

  + Singapore Management University                         Aug 2015 ~ May 2019

    - Bachelor of Accountancy Majoring in Analytics
    - Graduated Summa Cum Laude with a grade of 3.86/4.00

      During my undergraduate studies I acquired an analytical perspective of
      the world that integrates a broad range of concepts in computer science,
      economics, finance, information systems, law, management, and statistics.


  + University of Canterbury                                Feb 2018 ~ Jun 2018

    - Certificate of Proficiency Arts (Undergraduate)
    - Grade: 7.8/9.0

      In Christchurch I explored concepts in applied statistics and computing,
      entrepreneurship, Japanese culture, and socio-cultural anthropology as an
      international student participating in an exchange programme.


* CERTIFICATIONS & LICENSES

  + Japanese-Language Proficiency Test Level N1 (JLPT N1)              Jan 2022

  + Information Security Management Examination                        Aug 2021

  + Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator (LFCS)             May 2021

  + Class 1 Driver's License (Ordinary and Heavy Special Vehicles)     Dec 2020
